Foreword

Many years ago I read a quotation which made a great impression on me. I decided it was a fine thought by which to pattern my life. I've no idea of the author but his words have stayed with me.

"I shall pass through this world but once.  Any good thing I can do, or any kindness I can show to any human being, let me do it now, and not delay, for I shall not pass this way again."

I haven't always done as much good as I might have, but at least the words have constantly reminded me of my goal.

------------------------------------

Special Memories

In the course of any life, dozens, or perhaps hundreds of things happen which do not directly affect our lives, but nevertheless, get stuck in our memory banks.

Then there are other events, although insignificant in and of themselves, when coupled with other events, can be life-changing.

If I try to put all these memories into my Life Story I'll never get it finished.  So, for now, I'll just talk a little bit about those which pop into my head, as time permits.

------------------------------------

On a sunny June morning about 6:00 a.m., I took a deep breath and began this adventure on planet earth, for the first time functioning without the life support system which my Mother had been providing for nine months.  Although I did not know it then, at least consciously, I was one of the luckier children born on that day, or any day.  There are those who say that we choose our parents.  If that is true, I certainly made an excellent choice.  No one has ever received a more loving nurturing.  Although money was scarce, services were inexpensive.  Witness the attached hospital bill - $25.00 for the delivery and a full week's stay in the hospital for both my Mother and myself.  The accompanying pictures are ample evidence that I was a well-fed little red-head.

Since my parents, as all parents, had such a profound influence on my early life, or more accurately, my entire life, I feel you should know something about them.

My father, Thomas Joseph, was born in Clearfield, Pennsylvania, one of five sons born to Thomas Joseph and Elizabeth Daugherty Cleary.  The couple were married on October 30, 1889.  Louis was born on January 19, 1891; Thomas on April 18, 1892; Maurice on August 13, 1893; William on November 17, 1894; and Cyril in January, 1896.

Tragically, my grandmother died of acute appendicitis on September 18, 1898.  My grandfather's mother and his two single sisters, Mary and Sarah, stepped in to raise the boys.  Shortly after the death, the family moved to Harrisburg.  My grandfather opened a barber shop, which he operated until his death in 1924.

My mother, Maria Viola, the third of five children of Christina McNally and Adam Rutter, was born on January 6, 1897 in Harrisburg, where she lived until 1918 when she married my Father and moved to Worcester, Massachusetts.  Her siblings were Eva, Anna, Adam and Clare.

The quotations in the following descriptions are taken from an autobiography which I wrote while a junior in high school.

"My Father is 5' 11" tall and weighs approximately 163 pounds.  He is of slim build with a high forehead.  his hair is turning silver, hi is slightly bald and wears glasses, but these factors only tend toward making him look very distinguished."

"His culture is very fine and his morals are beyond reproach.  He is a good salesman, a hard, industrious worker, as well as a splendid husband and father."

"My Mother is 5' 7.5" tall and weighs 147 pounds.  She is slim with a rather round face and medium complexion.  Her curly hair is brunette and her eyes are brown."

"Mother's culture and morals are developed to a high degree and a pleasant disposition makes her very lovable."

"Both daddy and mother like dancing, *driving, golf and pets of all kinds, while both dislike selfishness, sarcasm, egotism, stubbornness and ungratefulness."

*Not entirely accurate - I never saw my father dance, although my mother loved to dance.  As to golf - I never knew either of them to play golf, nor did they belong to a golf club.  Although not mentioned here, my father was an avid baseball fan, especially of the (then) Philadelphia Athletics.

Although I was born in Worcester, Massachusetts, I was not destined to remain a "Massachusetts Yankee".  Within the year my parents moved to Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and then, when I was about two years old, to Harrisburg, where we were to spend the next several years.

While we lived in Harrisburg my sister Marie was born on May 21, 1921, and my brother Tom, on June 10, 1922.  Tom came into the world plagued by health problems, and so far as I can remember, he was never free of them in those early years of his life.  It seems to me, thinking back, that the culmination of his problems was a bout with pneumonia when he was about four years old and was expected to die.  Fortunately he recovered, but for many hears had respiratory problems.

His poor health, including a near death experience, put a severe burden on my mother, since my sister was barely a year old when Tom was born.  The situation may have caused Marie to feel neglected, but I can't honestly say that I was affected.  In spite of her distractions, I know that my mother was always insistent that Marie and I would have equal treatment from any visiting relatives.  Remembering that sh was only twenty-four years old when Tom was born, I think that she did an admirable job of handling a trying situation.

What a break it was for me to return to Harrisburg.  There I had, among other relatives, an adoring Grandfather Cleary.  I've been told that on many an afternoon my grandfather would close his barber shop and come to the house to play with me.  Although I don't actually remember his visits - I was only five when he died - I feel the greatest tenderness for this man.  he was blessed with five sons, but lost his wife at such an early age, and with her death, any hope of having a daughter.  I was especially nice that I had inherited the Cleary red hair.

The picture of my grandfather was taken in front of the house at 1526 Susquehanna St. in Harrisburg, where he lived until his death in 1924, and his sons continued to live for many years.  It was a house in which I always felt loved.

Harrisburg developed along the banks of the Susquehanna River.  The residents were fortunate because the city planners had provided a wide grassy area adjacent to the river as it wound its way through town, which served as a park.  I was often taken to this lovely area.  The young man is my Uncle Maurice, usually called Jere, my father's brother.

Harrisburg's citizens had another advantage.  As the Susquehanna flowed past the town, a large island was created.  Since the river was naturally shallow, sand was brought in and a beach created which, naturally enough, was called "Island Beach."  When the grand opening was held, my mother and I were there to enjoy the sun and sand and water.  My mother is the slender young lady in the pictures.  I clearly had a wonderful day.  incidentally, the beach was very popular, and remained in operation for many years.  Even as a teenager I continued to enjoy the beach.

In 1925 I entered the first grade at St. Mary's Catholic School in Harrisburg.

My scholastic career started on a great note when I received, at the close of that school year, the prize given to the pupil in each grade with the highest average for the year's work.  Although I must admit I don't remember the event, my Mother certainly did.  On a Sunday afternoon after the school year ended, all academic awards were presented to the students at a ceremony in the parish church.  Naturally, all the parents attended.  The winners were not announced prior to the distribution of the awards.  only one other student and myself were under consideration for the first grade prize, which, to my Mother's great delight, was awarded to me.

(I am sure my Mother felt a particular pride in my accomplishment, since she had left school at the end of the sixth grade.)

I should not leave this year without mentioning my lifelong fried, Leonard Young.  His mother and mine were best friends, so we became acquainted at a very young age.  our birthdays are very close, consequently we started in the first grade at St. Mary's school together.  Even though my family left Harrisburg we always kept in touch, although infrequently.  How great it is to have a friend who can remember how things were when you were both six years old.  It happens much too infrequently.

The second grade was noteworthy because it was the only other school year that I attended St. Mary's.  It was also important because at the end of that school year I made my First Communion.  (Note the rug on which I'm standing.  whether it was there to add to the aesthetic value of the picture of to keep my shoes clean, I do not know.)

During the summer of 1927, my family moved to Detroit, Michigan, because my father had accepted a position there.  In distance Detroit was about 600 miles from Harrisburg, but in those days that was a two day trip over the Appalachian Mountains.

I have often wondered what was so great about the work prospect in Detroit that enticed my father into moving there, so far from his and my mother's families.  it certainly wasn't a lighter work load.  As long as I can remember he worked six days a week, which included about 15 hours on Saturday.  Only Sunday was a day of rest for him.  After Mass, without fail, he would take time to write a letter to his brother Lou detailing all of the week's activities.  I never saw one of those letters, but I am sure they included a complete account of everything we children did.  My Uncle Lou told me that it was so difficult after my Farther died, not to receive those weekly letters.

I began the third grade at St. Cecilia Catholic School, since our home was located within the parish boundaries.  In those days parents were under a strict edict to send their children to the parish school.  There were no school buses for the Catholic schools, so we all had to walk to school.  Luckily, there were many Catholics in the area, so there were always friends to share the walk.  Nevertheless, Detroit has some bitter cold and windy winter weather, so the walk, four times a day, was often unpleasant.  in those days no one ever thought of serving hot lunches at the schools.  But we survived, and were no doubt healthier for all that walking.

The Christmas letter to my father was written that first Christmas we lived in Detroit.  It is interesting that I signed it with my full name.  The letter must have truly touched him, because it was kept through the years.  I clearly loved my father very much, and still do.

(Notice that the letter was written in ink.  There were no ball-point pens in those days- only a holder with a removable pen point and a bottle of ink.  Believe me, it was hard not to make a blot on th paper - especially when you were only eight years old.)

Although we lived in a few different houses when we first moved to Detroit, we finally settled in at 7225 Tuxedo Ave., where the family remained until after my father's death in 1952.

Lest you are beginning to think that I never had a sick day, I need to add that at some point I did have a tonsillectomy.  It seemed that everyone had one in those days.  Maybe it was the only way the doctors knew to deal with a sore throat.

I also had an appendectomy when I was fifteen.  In fact, I spent my sixteenth birthday in the hospital.  I remember looking forward to that birthday so I could get a driver's license.  Of course, we had only one car, so opportunities to drive were limited, especially since my father drove to work.  Well anyway, my father taught me to drive, giving me numerous safe driving tops, many of which I remember to this day.  I finally go my license, and haven't been without one since.

It has always been a mystery to me why any woman would be satisfied to let her husband do all the family driving.  That always seemed so confining, to wait on a man's willingness or free time to go somewhere.  As the King of Siam was wont to say - "is a puzzlement."

There were no other illnesses that I can recall, nor any other trips to the hospital.  lucky me - to be born health and able to stay that way.

After we moved to Detroit, it became customary for my mother, with us children, to drive to Harrisburg, where we would spend the summers.  My father always took his vacation during the last two weeks of August when he took the train to Harrisburg so that he, too, could spend some time with his family.  I don't remember any summer when we were young that this procedure was not followed.  When his vacation was over, we all returned together to Detroit, in time for the start of the new school year.

I remember that, toward the end of our vacation, my uncles took us children shopping to buy us new fall outfits.  It was a really nice treat, because, as I have mentioned, money was rather scarce at our house.

My mother and Tom, and usually Marie also, stayed with my grandmother Rutter, or with my mother's friend Peg Young.  Except for an occasional day or so, I always stayed at 1526 Susquehanna St., where my uncles lived.

I must say that I lived in a very protected environment while in Harrisburg.  There was a public school and playground on block from the house, and sometimes I would play there, but without fail we had lunch (dinner?) at 12:00 o;clock when my Uncle Bill came home for lunch.  This was always the big meal of the day.  After lunch I had to stay in the house and "rest", away from the midday sun.  That seems like rather a strict arrangement, but I don't remember minding it too much.  On the third floor of the house was a room filled with old books and other miscellaneous items.  However, it was the books which most interested me.  I remember particularly a book of Aesop's Fables which I still have, and several Horatio Alger stories.  They were nice stories, and are even now referred to by writers.  I like them because the hero, Horatio, always accomplished his goals.  He was a hero to me in those days.  I only regret that I don't still have those books.

My Uncle Bill made an effort on those summer days, to find something interesting for us children to do after he had finished his day' work.  A trip to a swimming pool was always a favorite.  Or he might take us to a park, or whatever else he thought would be a treat for us.  He was always the soul of kindness, and I loved him dearly.
